Open Systems Interconnection Model (The Networking Model)
    [Please Do Not Throw Sausage Pizza Away]

    Layer 7:

        The User Layer (Application)

        - HTTP, SMTP
    
    Layer 6:

        The Program Layer (Presentation)

        - WMV, JPEG, MOV (Media)

        - The translator between the innerworkings and the GUI, and also vice versa.
    
    Layer 5:

        Session Layer (Session)

        - Session Management

        - Establishes some sort of same-time connection between two devices to try and
        sync their data.

        - Creation of packets.
    
    Layer 4:

        Transport Layer (Transport [kind of the same as layer3])

        - Either TCP or UDP connections.
    
    Layer 3:

        Network Layer (Network/Routers)

        - IP addresses, routing

        - Communication of the recieved data through IP addresses.
    
    Layer 2:

        Data Link Layer (Data Link/Switches)

        - Switching, MAC addresses

        - Data is linked from software packets and IP addresses to MAC addresses located in NIC(Network Interface Card).
        - Switches can split up packets to go to the network or use IP/TCP protocol to send them out, and from device to device on the same network.

        
    Layer 1:
        Physical Layer (Physical)

        - Physical CPU, hardware, cables, and bits/bytes.

        - Data cables, cat6 cables.


Type of Protocols:
    
    Device Communication:

        TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) - Standard device to device protocol that is secure with the
        Three-way Handshake.
            - Three Way Handshake = SYN > SYN ACK > ACK

        UDP (User Datagram Protocol) - Stream of data that can be incomplete, low latency and reliability.

        ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) - MAC addresses can be connected to IP Address by a device broadcasting
        the question of who has a certain IP Address in which the corresponding MAC address will respond.

        DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) - MAC addresses without an IP Address will be assigned an IP
        address on a network through this protocol.

    Internet Communication

        HTTP Headers (additional optional information send with HTTP requests):

            Browser to Server
                Host - Which website (especially if a single domain has many websites)
                User-Agent - Version of browser and browser software.
                Content Length - The size of the data sent in the request.
                Accept Encoding - Tells the web server what type of encoding the browser may support.
                Cookie - Typically data sent to the server, especially if the web server has requested the browser to use one.

            Server to Browser
                Set-Cookie - Tells the browser to set a certain cookie (info to store) in it.
                Cache-Control - How long to store the data until it should request a fresh data batch.
                Content-Type - The type of content (Video, image, audio, txt, html)
                Content-Encoding - The compression used on a file being sent.

        HTTP - HyperText Transfer Protocol (Standard internet communication between two servers)

        HTTPS - H

        URL (Uniform Resource Locator) - Specifically to tell your browser what to do.


IP Addresses:

    Private IP Addresses (Only within a private network not visible to the internet)

        - 192.168 (Class C)

        - 172. (Class B)

        - 127.0.0.x (Localhost/Loopback)

        - 10.0.0.0 (Class A)

Common Ports and Protocols:
    
    LDAP/LDAPS 
        Lightweight Directory Access Protocol - Servers that allow open access as long as you have authorization.
            Basically, a weaker and less secure SMB. It only provides authentication rather than all the things SMB does.
                * SOMETIMES SENDS CREDENTIALS IN PLAIN TEXT!


    TCP:

        FTP (21) - File Transfer Protocol.

        SSH (22) - Secure Shell Hosting.

        Telnet (23) - Non-encrypted SSH, communicating to allow login with a remote device.

        SMTP (25), POP3(110), IMAP(143) - Emails

        HTTP (80) / HTTPS (443) - Internet protocol

        SMB (139, 445) - File Share Servers, Samba


    UDP:

        DNS (53) - Domain Name Server

        DHCP (67, 68) (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) - MAC addresses without an IP Address will be assigned
        an IP address on a network through this protocol.

        TFTP (69) - 

        SNMP (161) - Simple Network Management Protocol.


Subnetting:

    ie. 192.168.1.0 />>>  24  <<< (the most helpful number)

    The Subnet number will be used to calculate the binary version of the subnet:
        ie. 255.255.255.0
    Then, you can use that to get the number of hosts that are available.
        ie. 255 because everything else is masked out. 
    Then, you can calculate the range that the network takes up.
